---
draft: false
date: 2023-05-30
---

# v4.0.0

**[View this release on GitHub.](https://github.com/discord-tickets/bot/releases/tag/v4.0.0)**

## What's new?

### Features

- First, the big one - the new settings panel web app. This took the majority of development time but was well worth it as it makes the setup experience vastly superior. It completely replaces the woeful command-based settings system of v3 - /blacklist, /panel, /settings, /stats, /survey, and the two text commands, tickets/tags and tickets/surveys have been removed.

- Now using [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) for database ORM and migrations. SQLite now supports transcripts, and PostgreSQL is officially supported. This means I can add features that require new settings and you can still update just as easily.
- The previously completely useless "opening questions" now use [modals](https://discord.com/developers/docs/interactions/message-components#text-inputs), as does the ticket topic. I also spent many hours adding select-menu question types to the settings panel, only to find out later that they are not yet supported in modals. 😔
- Surveys have been replaced by simple modal-powered Feedback. When enabled, the user is asked for a rating out of 5 and an optional comment.
- Users can now be notified when there are no staff members online, or when they are not expected to be (and tell them when they should be back).
- Inactivity Warnings remind your users and staff to return to the ticket after the conversation has died.
- Stale tickets can be closed automatically, so your staff can spend less time cleaning up after annoying users.
- The long-awaited return of the /tickets and /transcripts commands.
- Sends a DM to users when their ticket is closed with some useful information.
- Users can DM the bot to create a ticket.
- Users can right-click on messages to reference them in a new ticket. Useful for transitioning a conversation from public to private channels, or reporting another member.
- Users can right-click on messages in their tickets to pin important messages. These messages will be easy to find in transcripts.
- Staff can right-click on users to send them a ticket prompt.
- You can reference a past ticket when using the /new command so it's easier to refer to its messages.
- Ticket and Discord categories are separated! Create as many categories as you want, without filling up your channel list.
- Staff can /move tickets to another category.
- Tickets can be transferred to other members (with /transfer).
- Tags can be used in any channel and don't take options.
- Tags can have RegEx patterns to automatically reply to messages.
- You can now hide the claim button and use /claim and /release instead.
- The close button and command now send a close request. No more vanishing tickets.
- Staff can use the new /force-close command to skip the close request (and Feedback).
- New /priority command prefixes the channel name with a green, orange, or red circle emoji to help your staff identify which tickets to check first.
- The /help command menu is clickable.
- The log channel shows tickets being opened and closed, claimed and released, messages being edited and deleted, and settings being changed.
- Enable slow mode in tickets.
- Response time and resolution time statistics with placeholders in opening messages and the bot's activity.
- You can send panels to an existing channel.
- Probably some less significant changes.

### Fixes

Any bugs that were specifically in the old codebase are gone, but there are also improvements to solve some general problems as well.

- Improved reliability, both at ensuring interactions are responded to promptly, and not failing when many tickets are created quickly.
- The 1488th ticket doesn't break the bot in Discovery-enabled servers.
- Panel select menus are refreshed by the bot, so they always reset without the user needing to reload their app.
- Tickets close automatically and immediately when the member leaves the guild or the channel is deleted. No more manually fixing the database when your incompetent staff start deleting things!
- Other things that I can't think of at the moment.


## Updating

To upgrade from v3 you will need to first migrate your data.

**Read the release announcement for more information: [Version 4.0 is finally here!](https://blog.discordtickets.app/version-4-0/)**
